 
 
PROFILE 
xperienced consultant who is passionate about solving business problems with data driven decision making. Worked with 
  E
global clients across various industries including retail, airline, technology, restaurant, entertainment, consumer packaged 
goods and financial services. Trusted client partner with successful track record of managing clients and analytics team. 
unnhumbyUSA, New York, NY (April 2013 – Present) 
PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE 
 
 
  d
Associate Director, Consumer Insights 
  Led teams of analyst across the globe to deliver statement of work for clients as well as drive innovation in big data and 
digital space along with knowledge sharing of best practices. 
  Helped understand and quantify the value of Omnichannel customer for the largest U.S. department store company. 
  Developed methodology to measure incremental lift and shift in customer behavior due to participation in loyalty coalition. 
  Built Omnichannel customer segmentation & trip mission segmentation to leverage customer behavior for targeting. 
  Drove dunnhumby’s thought leadership around Omnichannel and Loyalty coalition programs. 
gilvy, New York, NY (June 2009 – March 2013) 
  O
Senior Consultant, Marketing Analytics 
  Identified 250M incremental revenue opportunity by leveraging airlines data and optimizing its marketing efforts. 
  Designed acquisition and retention strategy for airline cards based on behavioral targeting and differential offering.  
  Provided strategic recommendation with data driven consumer insights using segmentation and predictive modeling. 
  Proactively addressed database issues that restrain impact of marketing communication and saved Millions. 
  Assessed direct marketing campaign performance by region and by segment to understand impact on revenue. 
  Developed interactive dashboards to better understand trends and change in consumer behavior over time. 
  Synthesized insights from brand tracking study to monitor performance, penetration and value of client’s global brand vs. 
Market Fusion Analytics (spin-off from PM Group Inc.), New York, NY (January 2009 – May 2009) 
Analyst, Marketing Analytics Consulting 
  Analyzed and improved effectiveness/efficiency of marketing spending across a corporate portfolio of brands using 
marketing mix modeling. 
  Provided actionable insights by developing customer and market segmentation, analyzing operational performance and 
carrying out media optimization. 
  Day to day responsibilities included collecting, organizing, transforming and maintaining relevant data sets and creating 
comprehensive quantitative analytical models using regression analysis.  
 
Columbia University, New York, NY (August 2005 – June 2007) 
Graduate Research Assistant, Department of Applied Physics & Applied Mathematics 
 
  Worked in small teams on 3 projects in Quantum Physics, Biomaterials and Semiconductors. 
  Analyzed quantitative & qualitative data from research findings. Employed modeling & simulation of data. 
competition and recommended strategic marketing approach for different regions. 
M Group Inc., New York, NY (January 2008 – December 2008) 
  P
oyal Institute of Technology (Kungliga Tekniska Högskolan, KTH), Stockholm, SWEDEN (May – July 2004)                                                                    
  R
Summer Intern 
  Conducted research on Superconductors and Spintronics to improve performance of multifunctional devices.  
  Prepared a research paper and presented findings. 
  Analyzed production and operations management of India's largest integrated private sector steel company.  
  Conducted efficiency improvement testing by implementing successful changes in the manufacturing technology and 
dditional Coursework at Columbia Business School: Strategy Consulting Skills, Systematic Creativity in Business, 
  A
Relevant Coursework: Optimization, Stochastic Models, Financial Engineering, Supply-Chain Management 
olumbia University, School of Engineering and Applied Science, New York, NY (October 2007) 
  C
Master of Science, Department of Applied Physics & Applied Mathematics 
  
ndian Institute of Technology, Bombay (IIT Bombay), Mumbai, INDIA (June 2005) 
Bachelor of Technology in Engineering 
  I
 
Consumer Behavior 
operations management of various sectors.  
 
 
EDUCATION 
ATA Steels, Mumbai, INDIA (May – June 2003) 
  T
Summer Intern 
ABHISHEK JAIN 
215 E, 95th Street, Apt. #33F, New York, NY 10128 
Mobile: 646-223-0066; Email: abhishekjaine@gmail.com 
 


  Full Financial Aid, Department of Applied Physics and Applied Mathematics, Columbia University (2005 – 2007). 
  Physics Olympiad 2002, placed 3rd in IIT + MS Category. 
 
 
STATISTICAL PACKAGES/ SOFTWARE KNOWLEDGE 
 
  SAS, SPSS, SQL, Google Analytics, Xcelcius, Tableau, Matlab, Mathematica, and MS office (Excel, Word, PowerPoint) 
  Experience with syndicated data from Nielson and IRI 
 
 
CERTIFICATIONS 
 
HONORS 
  Certified SAS Programmer (SAS Institute Inc.) 
  Certified SQL Expert (Oracle) 
 
 
   
 


